---
layout: post
title: "Ramblings on Network Infrastructure"
date: 2018-05-11 4:00:00 -0000
categories:
---

With a small set of primitives and base operations we can weave them into what are, essentially, higher-order primitives. Development is built upon this idea of black-box abstractions on top of black-box abstractions. It's a miracle we can get anything done, there's such a wide gap between the rough concepts in our head and the stream of 1's and 0's that a computer reads. Following the trend of Moore's Law, computing resources increased and the cost of a programmer's time started to outpace the cost of infrastructure. In response, the design of programming languages grew increasingly abstract, more and more power was built directly into the language - the trade off being inefficiencies in resource management and the introduction of style biases (through the language designers). These are minor costs to pay since it significantly cut the amount of effort required to create things, individuals could now do stuff without being bogged down by mostly unnecessary implementation details. The gap between the rough concepts in our heads and the stream of 1's and 0's shortened, a grasp of the entire system being built was possible. Ideas that wouldn't have survived in the bean counting, maximum memory efficiency era were more feasible and (some) turned out to be useful. Those ideas then contributed to the development of more ideas, repeat this over and over and there we have our modern environment. Faster feedback loops lead to increased overall prototyping and idea testing, driving progress. These are broad ideas, they're not restricted to computer science. I see a lot of similarity between higher level programming languages and cloud providers, I look forward to seeing how things play out. 
